Model Selection and Comparison Chapter

Chapter Preview

Contributors

Begin each section with learning objectives

I think re-organize

Make modified data a separate subsection

put starting values (2.1) as part of the nonparametrics

Need further reading section


Title

Model comparison and selection

Chapter Preview.
Chapters 2 and 3 have described how to fit parametric models to frequency and severity data, respectively. This chapter describes selection of models. To compare alternative parametric models, it is helpful to introduce models that summarize data without reference to a specific parametric distribution. Section 3.1 describes nonparametric estimation, how we can use it for model comparisons and how it can be used to provide starting values for parametric procedures.

The process of model selection is then summarized in Section 3.2. Although our focus is on continuous data, the same process can be used for discrete data or data that is a hybrid combination of mixed and data. Further, Section 3.3 introduces for alternative sampling schemes, included grouped, censored and truncated data. The chapter closes with Section 3.4 on Bayesian inference, an alternative procedure where the (typically unknown) parameters are treated as random variables.

Learning Outcomes

1. Nonparametric Estimation
In this section, you learn how to:
estimate moments, quantiles, and distribution without reference to a parametric distribution
summarize the data graphically without reference to a parametric distribution
determine measures that summarize deviations of a parametric from a nonparametric fit
use nonparametric estimators to provide approximations of parameters from a distribution that can be use to start a parametric estimation procedure

2. Model Selection
In this section, you learn how to:
describe the iterative model selection specification process
outline steps needed to select a parametric model
describe pitfalls of model selection based purely on insample data and highlight the advantages of out-of-sample model validation
describe the Gini statistic for model selection

3. Modified Data
In this section, you learn how to:
describe grouped, censored, and truncated data
estimate parameter distributions based on grouped, censored, and truncated data
estimate distribution nonparametrically based on grouped, censored, and truncated data

4. Bayesian Inference
In this section, you learn how to:
describe the Bayes model as an alternative to the frequentist approach and summarize the five components of this modeling approach
describe the Bayesian decision framework and its role in determining Bayesian predictions
calculate posterior predictions






